README.md, before:

# Awesome Microservices

A curated list of Microservice Architecture related principles and technologies.

<!-- START doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->
<!-- DON'T EDIT THIS SECTION, INSTEAD RE-RUN doctoc TO UPDATE -->
**Table of Contents**

- [Toolkits](#toolkits)
  - [JVM](#jvm)
  - [Go](#go)
- [Runtimes](#runtimes)
- [Platforms](#platforms)
- [Infrastructure](#infrastructure)
  - [API Gateway](#api-gateway)
  - [Serialization](#serialization)
  - [Messaging](#messaging)
  - [Elastic Computing](#elastic-computing)
  - [Resilience](#resilience)
  - [Configuration & Discovery](#configuration-&-discovery)
  - [Monitoring](#monitoring)
  - [Logging](#logging)
- [IT Automation / Provisioning](#it-automation--provisioning)
- [Deployment & Continuous Integration](#deployment-&-continuous-integration)
  - [On-prem](#on-prem)
  - [Hosted](#hosted)
  - [Lightweight Packaging](#lightweight-packaging)
- [Containers](#containers)
- [Real Life Stories](#real-life-stories)
- [Theory](#theory)
  - [Articles & Papers](#articles-&-papers)
  - [Books](#books)
  - [Sites](#sites)
- [License](#license)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [Acknowledgments](#acknowledgments)

<!-- END doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->

## Toolkits

### JVM

- [Dropwizard](https://dropwizard.github.io/) - Java framework for developing ops-friendly, high-performance, RESTful web services.
- [Finagle](http://twitter.github.io/finagle) - Extensible RPC system for the JVM, used to construct high-concurrency servers.
- [Spray](http://spray.io/) - Open-source toolkit for building REST/HTTP-based integration layers on top of Scala and Akka.
- [Spring Boot](http://projects.spring.io/spring-boot/) - Makes it easy to create stand-alone, production-grade Spring based Applications that you can "just run".
- [Vert.X](http://vertx.io/) - Toolkit for building reactive applications on the JVM.


### Go

- [Kite](https://github.com/koding/kite) - Microservice framework in Go.
- [Martini](http://martini.codegangsta.io/) - Classy web development in Go.
- [Negroni](https://github.com/codegangsta/negroni) - Idiomatic HTTP Middleware for Golang.

## Runtimes

- [Akka](http://akka.io/) - Toolkit and runtime for building highly concurrent, distributed, and resilient message-driven applications on the JVM.
- [Erlang/OTP](http://www.erlang.org/doc/design_principles/users_guide.html) - Programming language used to build massively scalable soft real-time systems with requirements on high availability.
- [Karaf](http://karaf.apache.org/) - Small OSGi based runtime which provides a lightweight container.

## Platforms

- [Fabric8](http://fabric8.io/) - Open-source integration platform for deep management of Java Containers (JVMs).
- [VAMP](http://vamp.io/) - Build, deploy and manage microservices with power and ease.

## Infrastructure

### API Gateway

- [Camel](http://camel.apache.org/) - Empowers you to define routing and mediation rules in a variety of domain-specific languages, including a Java-based Fluent API, Spring or Blueprint XML Configuration files, and a Scala DSL.
- [Kong](http://getkong.org/) - Open-source management layer for APIs.
- [Tyk](https://tyk.io/) - Open-source, fast and scalable API gateway, portal and API management platform.

### Serialization

- [Cereal](http://uscilab.github.io/cereal/) - C++11 library for serialization.
- [Kryo](https://github.com/EsotericSoftware/kryo) - Java serialization and cloning: fast, efficient, automatic.
- [MessagePack](http://msgpack.org/) - Efficient binary serialization format.

### Messaging

- [ØMQ](http://zeromq.org/) - Brokerless intelligent transport layer.
- [ActiveMQ](http://activemq.apache.org/) - Powerful open source messaging and integration patterns server.
- [Apollo](http://activemq.apache.org/apollo/) - Faster, more reliable, easier to maintain messaging broker built from the foundations of the original ActiveMQ.
- [Beanstalk](http://kr.github.io/beanstalkd/) - Simple, fast work queue.
- [Disque](https://github.com/antirez/disque) - Distributed message broker.
- [Kafka](http://kafka.apache.org/) - Publish-subscribe messaging rethought as a distributed commit log.
- [Nanomsg](http://nanomsg.org/) - Socket library that provides several common communication patterns for building distributed systems.
- [NATS](https://nats.io/) - Open-source, high-performance, lightweight cloud messaging system.
- [Qpid](https://qpid.apache.org/) - Cross-platform messaging components built on AMQP.
- [RabbitMQ](https://www.rabbitmq.com/) - Open source Erlang-based message broker that just works.

### Elastic Computing

- [Chronos](https://github.com/mesos/chronos) - Fault tolerant job scheduler for Mesos which handles dependencies and ISO8601 based schedules.
- [Galaxy](http://www.paralleluniverse.co/galaxy/) - Open-source high-performance in-memory data-grid.
- [Hazelcast](http://hazelcast.org/) - Open source in-memory data-grid. Allows you to distribute data and computation across servers, clusters and geographies, and to manage very large data sets or high data ingest rates. Mature technology.
- [Ignite](https://ignite.incubator.apache.org/) - High-performance, integrated and distributed in-memory platform for computing and transacting on large-scale data sets in real-time, orders of magnitude faster than possible with traditional disk-based or flash technologies.
- [Marathon](https://mesosphere.github.io/marathon/) - Deploy and manage containers (including Docker) on top of Apache Mesos at scale.
- [Mesos](https://mesos.apache.org/) - Abstracts CPU, memory, storage, and other compute resources away from machines (physical or virtual), enabling fault-tolerant and elastic distributed systems to easily be built and run effectively.

### Resilience

- [Hystrix](https://github.com/Netflix/Hystrix) - Latency and fault tolerance library designed to isolate points of access to remote systems, services and 3rd party libraries, stop cascading failure and enable resilience in complex distributed systems where failure is inevitable.
- [Simian Army](https://github.com/Netflix/SimianArmy) - Suite of tools for keeping your cloud operating in top form. Chaos Monkey, the first member, is a resiliency tool that helps ensure that your applications can tolerate random instance failures.

### Configuration & Discovery

- [Consul](https://consul.io/) - Service discovery and configuration made easy. Distributed, highly available, and datacenter-aware.
- [Etcd](https://github.com/coreos/etcd) - Highly-available key-value store for shared configuration and service discovery.
- [Eureka](https://github.com/Netflix/eureka/wiki/Eureka-at-a-glance) - REST based service that is primarily used in the AWS cloud for locating services for the purpose of load balancing and failover of middle-tier servers.
- [SkyDNS](https://github.com/skynetservices/skydns) - Distributed service for announcement and discovery of services built on top of etcd. It utilizes DNS queries to discover available services.
- [ZooKeeper](https://zookeeper.apache.org/) - Open-source server which enables highly reliable distributed coordination.

### Monitoring

- [Graphite](http://graphite.wikidot.com/) - Scalable realtime graphing.
- [Riemann](http://riemann.io/) - Monitors distributed systems.

### Logging

- [Fluentd](http://www.fluentd.org/) - Open source data collector for unified logging layer.
- [Graylog](https://www.graylog.org/) - Fully integrated open source log management platform.
- [Kibana](https://www.elastic.co/products/kibana) - Flexible analytics and visualization platform.
- [Logstash](http://logstash.net/) - Tool for managing events and logs.
- [Suro](https://github.com/Netflix/suro/wiki) - Distributed data pipeline which enables services for moving, aggregating, routing, storing data.

## IT Automation / Provisioning

- [Ansible](http://www.ansible.com/) - Radically simple IT automation platform that makes your applications and systems easier to deploy.
- [Chef](https://www.chef.io/chef/) - Automate how you build, deploy, and manage your infrastructure.
- [Puppet](https://puppetlabs.com/) - From provisioning bare metal & launching containers to new ways to manage infrastructure as code.

## Deployment & Continuous Integration

### On-prem

- [Jenkins](http://jenkins-ci.org/) - Extensible open source continuous integration server.

### Hosted

- [AWS OpsWorks](http://aws.amazon.com/opsworks/) - Provides a simple and flexible way to create and manage stacks and applications.
- [Codeship](https://codeship.com/) - Hosted continuous delivery platform that takes care
of the testing and deployment process.
- [Travis](https://travis-ci.org/) - Continuous integration and deployment service.

### Lightweight Packaging

- [Capsule](https://github.com/puniverse/capsule) - Packaging and deployment tool for JVM applications.

## Containers

- [AWS ECS](http://aws.amazon.com/ecs/) - Easily run and manage Docker-enabled applications across a cluster of Amazon EC2 instances.
- [CoreOS](https://coreos.com/) - Open source lightweight operating system based on the Linux kernel and designed for providing infrastructure to clustered deployments.
- [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) - Open platform for distributed applications for developers and sysadmins.
- [Kubernetes](http://kubernetes.io/) - Open source orchestration system for Docker containers.

## Real Life Stories

- [Clean Micro-service Architecture](http://blog.cleancoder.com/uncle-bob/2014/10/01/CleanMicroserviceArchitecture.html)
- [Failing at Microservices](https://rclayton.silvrback.com/failing-at-microservices)
- [How to Talk To Your Friends About MicroServices](http://pivotallabs.com/how-to-talk-to-your-friends-about-microservices/)
- [How we build microservices at Karma](https://blog.yourkarma.com/building-microservices-at-karma)
- [Microservices: Lessons from the Frontline](http://www.thoughtworks.com/insights/blog/microservices-lessons-frontline)

## Theory

### Articles & Papers

- [AKF Scale Cube](http://akfpartners.com/techblog/2008/05/08/splitting-applications-or-services-for-scale/)
- [CALM](http://db.cs.berkeley.edu/papers/cidr11-bloom.pdf)
- [CAP Theorem](http://blog.thislongrun.com/2015/03/the-cap-theorem-series.html)
- [CQRS](http://martinfowler.com/bliki/CQRS.html)
- [Event Sourcing](http://martinfowler.com/eaaDev/EventSourcing.html)
- [Hexagonal Architecture](http://alistair.cockburn.us/Hexagonal+architecture)
- [Microservice Architecture](http://martinfowler.com/articles/microservices.html)

### Books

- [Building Microservices](http://nginx.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/01/Building_Microservices_Nginx.pdf)
- [The Art of Scalability](http://theartofscalability.com/)

### Sites

- [Microservice Patterns](http://microservices.io/)
- [OSGi](http://www.osgi.org/)

## License

[![CC0](http://i.creativecommons.org/p/zero/1.0/88x31.png)](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/)

## Contributing

To contribute, please, [open an issue](https://github.com/mfornos/awesome-microservices/issues) or [create a pull request](https://github.com/mfornos/awesome-microservices/pulls).

:star2: Additions, suggestions, and structural amendments are welcome.

Thank you!

## Acknowledgments

Table of contents generated with [DocToc](https://github.com/thlorenz/doctoc)

Commit message:

Added Ordasity and Resilient-HTTP

README.md, after:

# Awesome Microservices

A curated list of Microservice Architecture related principles and technologies.

<!-- START doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->
<!-- DON'T EDIT THIS SECTION, INSTEAD RE-RUN doctoc TO UPDATE -->
**Table of Contents**

- [Toolkits](#toolkits)
  - [JVM](#jvm)
  - [Go](#go)
- [Runtimes](#runtimes)
- [Platforms](#platforms)
- [Infrastructure](#infrastructure)
  - [API Gateway](#api-gateway)
  - [Serialization](#serialization)
  - [Messaging](#messaging)
  - [Elastic Computing](#elastic-computing)
  - [Resilience](#resilience)
  - [Configuration & Discovery](#configuration-&-discovery)
  - [Monitoring](#monitoring)
  - [Logging](#logging)
- [IT Automation / Provisioning](#it-automation--provisioning)
- [Deployment & Continuous Integration](#deployment-&-continuous-integration)
  - [On-prem](#on-prem)
  - [Hosted](#hosted)
  - [Lightweight Packaging](#lightweight-packaging)
- [Containers](#containers)
- [Real Life Stories](#real-life-stories)
- [Theory](#theory)
  - [Articles & Papers](#articles-&-papers)
  - [Books](#books)
  - [Sites](#sites)
- [License](#license)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [Acknowledgments](#acknowledgments)

<!-- END doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->

## Toolkits

### JVM

- [Dropwizard](https://dropwizard.github.io/) - Java framework for developing ops-friendly, high-performance, RESTful web services.
- [Finagle](http://twitter.github.io/finagle) - Extensible RPC system for the JVM, used to construct high-concurrency servers.
- [Spray](http://spray.io/) - Open-source toolkit for building REST/HTTP-based integration layers on top of Scala and Akka.
- [Spring Boot](http://projects.spring.io/spring-boot/) - Makes it easy to create stand-alone, production-grade Spring based Applications that you can "just run".
- [Vert.X](http://vertx.io/) - Toolkit for building reactive applications on the JVM.


### Go

- [Kite](https://github.com/koding/kite) - Microservice framework in Go.
- [Martini](http://martini.codegangsta.io/) - Classy web development in Go.
- [Negroni](https://github.com/codegangsta/negroni) - Idiomatic HTTP Middleware for Golang.

## Runtimes

- [Akka](http://akka.io/) - Toolkit and runtime for building highly concurrent, distributed, and resilient message-driven applications on the JVM.
- [Erlang/OTP](http://www.erlang.org/doc/design_principles/users_guide.html) - Programming language used to build massively scalable soft real-time systems with requirements on high availability.
- [Karaf](http://karaf.apache.org/) - Small OSGi based runtime which provides a lightweight container.

## Platforms

- [Fabric8](http://fabric8.io/) - Open-source integration platform for deep management of Java Containers (JVMs).
- [VAMP](http://vamp.io/) - Build, deploy and manage microservices with power and ease.

## Infrastructure

### API Gateway

- [Camel](http://camel.apache.org/) - Empowers you to define routing and mediation rules in a variety of domain-specific languages, including a Java-based Fluent API, Spring or Blueprint XML Configuration files, and a Scala DSL.
- [Kong](http://getkong.org/) - Open-source management layer for APIs.
- [Tyk](https://tyk.io/) - Open-source, fast and scalable API gateway, portal and API management platform.

### Serialization

- [Cereal](http://uscilab.github.io/cereal/) - C++11 library for serialization.
- [Kryo](https://github.com/EsotericSoftware/kryo) - Java serialization and cloning: fast, efficient, automatic.
- [MessagePack](http://msgpack.org/) - Efficient binary serialization format.

### Messaging

- [ØMQ](http://zeromq.org/) - Brokerless intelligent transport layer.
- [ActiveMQ](http://activemq.apache.org/) - Powerful open source messaging and integration patterns server.
- [Apollo](http://activemq.apache.org/apollo/) - Faster, more reliable, easier to maintain messaging broker built from the foundations of the original ActiveMQ.
- [Beanstalk](http://kr.github.io/beanstalkd/) - Simple, fast work queue.
- [Disque](https://github.com/antirez/disque) - Distributed message broker.
- [Kafka](http://kafka.apache.org/) - Publish-subscribe messaging rethought as a distributed commit log.
- [Nanomsg](http://nanomsg.org/) - Socket library that provides several common communication patterns for building distributed systems.
- [NATS](https://nats.io/) - Open-source, high-performance, lightweight cloud messaging system.
- [Qpid](https://qpid.apache.org/) - Cross-platform messaging components built on AMQP.
- [RabbitMQ](https://www.rabbitmq.com/) - Open source Erlang-based message broker that just works.

### Elastic Computing

- [Chronos](https://github.com/mesos/chronos) - Fault tolerant job scheduler for Mesos which handles dependencies and ISO8601 based schedules.
- [Galaxy](http://www.paralleluniverse.co/galaxy/) - Open-source high-performance in-memory data-grid.
- [Hazelcast](http://hazelcast.org/) - Open source in-memory data-grid. Allows you to distribute data and computation across servers, clusters and geographies, and to manage very large data sets or high data ingest rates. Mature technology.
- [Ignite](https://ignite.incubator.apache.org/) - High-performance, integrated and distributed in-memory platform for computing and transacting on large-scale data sets in real-time, orders of magnitude faster than possible with traditional disk-based or flash technologies.
- [Ordasity](https://github.com/boundary/ordasity) - Ordasity is designed to spread persistent or long-lived workloads across several machines.
- [Marathon](https://mesosphere.github.io/marathon/) - Deploy and manage containers (including Docker) on top of Apache Mesos at scale.
- [Mesos](https://mesos.apache.org/) - Abstracts CPU, memory, storage, and other compute resources away from machines (physical or virtual), enabling fault-tolerant and elastic distributed systems to easily be built and run effectively.

### Resilience

- [Hystrix](https://github.com/Netflix/Hystrix) - Latency and fault tolerance library designed to isolate points of access to remote systems, services and 3rd party libraries, stop cascading failure and enable resilience in complex distributed systems where failure is inevitable.
- [Resilient](http://resilient-http.github.io/) - A smart HTTP client with super powers like fault tolerance, dynamic server discovery, auto balancing and reactive recovery, designed for distributed systems.
- [Simian Army](https://github.com/Netflix/SimianArmy) - Suite of tools for keeping your cloud operating in top form. Chaos Monkey, the first member, is a resiliency tool that helps ensure that your applications can tolerate random instance failures.

### Configuration & Discovery

- [Consul](https://consul.io/) - Service discovery and configuration made easy. Distributed, highly available, and datacenter-aware.
- [Etcd](https://github.com/coreos/etcd) - Highly-available key-value store for shared configuration and service discovery.
- [Eureka](https://github.com/Netflix/eureka/wiki/Eureka-at-a-glance) - REST based service that is primarily used in the AWS cloud for locating services for the purpose of load balancing and failover of middle-tier servers.
- [SkyDNS](https://github.com/skynetservices/skydns) - Distributed service for announcement and discovery of services built on top of etcd. It utilizes DNS queries to discover available services.
- [ZooKeeper](https://zookeeper.apache.org/) - Open-source server which enables highly reliable distributed coordination.

### Monitoring

- [Graphite](http://graphite.wikidot.com/) - Scalable realtime graphing.
- [Riemann](http://riemann.io/) - Monitors distributed systems.

### Logging

- [Fluentd](http://www.fluentd.org/) - Open source data collector for unified logging layer.
- [Graylog](https://www.graylog.org/) - Fully integrated open source log management platform.
- [Kibana](https://www.elastic.co/products/kibana) - Flexible analytics and visualization platform.
- [Logstash](http://logstash.net/) - Tool for managing events and logs.
- [Suro](https://github.com/Netflix/suro/wiki) - Distributed data pipeline which enables services for moving, aggregating, routing, storing data.

## IT Automation / Provisioning

- [Ansible](http://www.ansible.com/) - Radically simple IT automation platform that makes your applications and systems easier to deploy.
- [Chef](https://www.chef.io/chef/) - Automate how you build, deploy, and manage your infrastructure.
- [Puppet](https://puppetlabs.com/) - From provisioning bare metal & launching containers to new ways to manage infrastructure as code.

## Deployment & Continuous Integration

### On-prem

- [Jenkins](http://jenkins-ci.org/) - Extensible open source continuous integration server.

### Hosted

- [AWS OpsWorks](http://aws.amazon.com/opsworks/) - Provides a simple and flexible way to create and manage stacks and applications.
- [Codeship](https://codeship.com/) - Hosted continuous delivery platform that takes care
of the testing and deployment process.
- [Travis](https://travis-ci.org/) - Continuous integration and deployment service.

### Lightweight Packaging

- [Capsule](https://github.com/puniverse/capsule) - Packaging and deployment tool for JVM applications.

## Containers

- [AWS ECS](http://aws.amazon.com/ecs/) - Easily run and manage Docker-enabled applications across a cluster of Amazon EC2 instances.
- [CoreOS](https://coreos.com/) - Open source lightweight operating system based on the Linux kernel and designed for providing infrastructure to clustered deployments.
- [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) - Open platform for distributed applications for developers and sysadmins.
- [Kubernetes](http://kubernetes.io/) - Open source orchestration system for Docker containers.

## Real Life Stories

- [Clean Micro-service Architecture](http://blog.cleancoder.com/uncle-bob/2014/10/01/CleanMicroserviceArchitecture.html)
- [Failing at Microservices](https://rclayton.silvrback.com/failing-at-microservices)
- [How to Talk To Your Friends About MicroServices](http://pivotallabs.com/how-to-talk-to-your-friends-about-microservices/)
- [How we build microservices at Karma](https://blog.yourkarma.com/building-microservices-at-karma)
- [Microservices: Lessons from the Frontline](http://www.thoughtworks.com/insights/blog/microservices-lessons-frontline)

## Theory

### Articles & Papers

- [AKF Scale Cube](http://akfpartners.com/techblog/2008/05/08/splitting-applications-or-services-for-scale/)
- [CALM](http://db.cs.berkeley.edu/papers/cidr11-bloom.pdf)
- [CAP Theorem](http://blog.thislongrun.com/2015/03/the-cap-theorem-series.html)
- [CQRS](http://martinfowler.com/bliki/CQRS.html)
- [Event Sourcing](http://martinfowler.com/eaaDev/EventSourcing.html)
- [Hexagonal Architecture](http://alistair.cockburn.us/Hexagonal+architecture)
- [Microservice Architecture](http://martinfowler.com/articles/microservices.html)
- [Reactive Manifesto](http://www.reactivemanifesto.org/)

### Books

- [Building Microservices](http://nginx.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/01/Building_Microservices_Nginx.pdf)
- [The Art of Scalability](http://theartofscalability.com/)

### Sites

- [Microservice Patterns](http://microservices.io/)
- [OSGi](http://www.osgi.org/)

## License

[![CC0](http://i.creativecommons.org/p/zero/1.0/88x31.png)](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/)

## Contributing

To contribute, please, [open an issue](https://github.com/mfornos/awesome-microservices/issues) or [create a pull request](https://github.com/mfornos/awesome-microservices/pulls).

:star2: Additions, suggestions, and structural amendments are welcome.

Thank you!

## Acknowledgments

Table of contents generated with [DocToc](https://github.com/thlorenz/doctoc)
